Release 1.5.0 (#551)
python-poetry/poetry-core: CHANGELOG.md

# Change Log

## [1.5.0] - 2023-01-24

### Added

- Improve marker handling ([#528](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/528),
[#534](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/534),
[#530](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/530),
[#546](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/546),
[#547](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/547)).

> - Allow an optional output directory for building ([#527](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/527)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allow for an optional output directory for build artifacts ([#527](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/527)).
```

> - Validate if dependencies referenced in `extras` are defined in the main dependency group ([#542](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/542)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Validate whether dependencies referenced in `extras` are defined in the main dependency group ([#542](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/542)).
```

- Improve handling of generic constraints ([#515](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/515)).

### Changed

- Deprecate the hash function of `FileDependency` ([#535](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/535)).
- Do not set `allows_preleases` implicitly anymore if the lower bound of a constraint is a pre-release ([#543](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/543)).

> - Do not generate a `setup.py` by default anymore ([#318](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/318)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not generate a `setup.py` file by default ([#318](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/318)).
```

- Remove the unused `platform` attribute from `Package` ([#548](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/548)).
- Deprecate the `pretty_version` parameter when creating a `Package` ([#549](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/549)).

> - Allow path dependencies with a non-existent path ([#520](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/520)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Validate path dependencies during use instead of during construction ([#520](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/520)).
```

### Fixed

- Fix an issue where the PEP 517 `metadata_directory` was not respected when building an editable wheel ([#537](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/537)).

> - Fix an issue where trailing newlines were allowed in the description ([#505](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/505)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix an issue where trailing newlines were allowed in `tool.poetry.description` ([#505](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/505)).
```

- Fix an issue where the name of the data folder in wheels was not normalized ([#532](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/532)).

> - Fix an issue where the order of entries in the RECORD file was not deterministically ([#545](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/545)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix an issue where the order of entries in the RECORD file was not deterministic([#545](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/545)).
```

> - Fix an issue where parsing of repository URLs with escaped characters failed ([#524](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/524)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix an issue where parsing of VCS URLs with escaped characters failed ([#524](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/524)).
```

> - Fix an issue where parsing of repository URLs the subdirectory parameter was ignored ([#518](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/518)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix an issue where during parsing of repository URLs the subdirectory parameter was ignored ([#518](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/518)).
```

> - Fix an issue where zero padding was not correctly applied when comparing versions ([#540](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/540)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix an issue where zero padding was not correctly handled in version comparisons ([#540](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/540)).
```

> - Fix an issue where building failed if there were multiple readme files ([#486](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/486)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix an issue where sdist builds did not support multiple READMEs ([#486](https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-core/pull/486)).
```
